# Big Data Analytics with MapReduce on NYC Yellow Taxi Dataset

## Objective:
This project involves analyzing the NYC TLC yellow taxi dataset for the year 2017 using various big data tools and technologies. The primary goal is to gain insights into taxi operations, passenger behaviors, and revenue patterns through data ingestion, processing, and analysis using MapReduce.

## ataset:
https://nyc-tlc-upgrad.s3.amazonaws.com/yellow_tripdata_2017-01.csv

https://nyc-tlc-upgrad.s3.amazonaws.com/yellow_tripdata_2017-02.csv

https://nyc-tlc-upgrad.s3.amazonaws.com/yellow_tripdata_2017-03.csv

https://nyc-tlc-upgrad.s3.amazonaws.com/yellow_tripdata_2017-04.csv

https://nyc-tlc-upgrad.s3.amazonaws.com/yellow_tripdata_2017-05.csv

https://nyc-tlc-upgrad.s3.amazonaws.com/yellow_tripdata_2017-06.csv

## Tasks
You will use the following big data tools for working with the assignment - Hadoop Framework, Apache HBase and Apache Sqoop. You'll be required to use an AWS EMR instance with all the services and install additional services depending on the tasks.
 
You will need to complete the following tasks after downloading the files onto your EMR Cluster. We recommend that you use the m4.xlarge cluster with ample space, since you will be working with a huge data set.
 
Once the dataset has been downloaded onto your instance, perform the following tasks:

### Data Ingestion Tasks:
Task 1. Create an RDS instance in your AWS account and upload the data using MySQL.
Since the dataset is huge, you need to upload the information from only two files from the dataset.
Note: You will need to create an appropriate schema for the data sets to upload them to RDS (you can find the data dictionary in the previous segments The steps to work with RDS in given in the Additional Resource).
Task 2. Use Sqoop command to ingest the data from RDS into the HBase Table.
Task 3. Bulk import data from next two files in the dataset on your EMR cluster to your HBase Table using the relevant codes.
Note: For the above task 3, you just need to import data from the next 2 csv files (yellow_tripdata_2017-03.csv & yellow_tripdata_2017-04.csv) on your EMR cluster.
MapReduce Tasks:
Task 4. Write MapReduce codes to perform the tasks using the files you’ve downloaded on your EMR Instance:
	1.	Which vendors have the most trips, and what is the total revenue generated by that vendor?
	2.	Which pickup location generates the most revenue? 
	3.	What are the different payment types used by customers and their count? The final results should be in a sorted format.
	4.	What is the average trip time for different pickup locations?
	5.	Calculate the average tips to revenue ratio of the drivers for different locations in sorted format.
	6.	How does revenue vary over time? Calculate the average trip revenue per month - analysing it by hour of the day (day vs night) and the day of the week (weekday vs weekend).
 
### Optional Task:
Task 5. Use Sqoop export command to export the results of each MapReduce tasks above to your RDS instance. Use the RDS connection string connection to visualise the dataset using a dashboarding tool (Google Data Studio, Tableau or PowerBI) (Optional)

NOTE: Please note that Task 5 is optional and purely to demonstrate how RDS and Sqoop.
NOTE: The Data Ingestion tasks and the MapReduce tasks are separate. The MapReduce tasks must be run with the local data downloaded to the cluster. 
